# An Extremely Pragmatic Crash Course on Git

## Basic structure of a git project
Git project can be thought of as having three parts:
* A Working Directory: where you'll be doing all the work: creating, editing, deleting and organizing files
* A Staging Area: where you'll list changes you make to the working directory
* A Repository: where Git permanently stores those changes as different versions of the project

The Git workflow consists of editing files in the working directory, adding files to the staging area, and saving changes to a Git repository.

## Basic git commands
* **git status** shows the current status of the project
* **git add filename** adds files or their changes to the staging area
* **git diff filename** shows the difference between the working directory and the staging area
    
    * files that are on the staging area are shown <span style="color:white;background-color:black"> white</span> 
    * changes of the files are shown with a leading '+' and in <span style="color:green;background-color:black"> green</span>

* **git commit** "permanently stores changes from the staging area inside the repository."
* **git log** shows a list of commits that have been made!!! Backtracking
* **git show HEAD** HEAD is the commit you are currently on (i.e., in most cases, the most recently made commit).
* **git checkout HEAD filename** can discard whatever changes are made to a file since the last commit (the HEAD). Note that this happens before you use ```add```; if ```add``` is already used, see the next command.
* **git reset HEAD filename** can be thought of as the 'undo' of ```add``` - that is, if you make some unwanted changes to a file and ```add``` it to the staging area, this command 'moves' it back so that the file is the same as it was in HEAD.
* **git reset SHA** sets HEAD to a given commit in history, specified by the first 7 characters of the SHA.

## Branching
* **git branch** shows the branches and the current ```branch``` you are on (with a leading ```*``` mark).
* **git checkout branch_name** switches to the ```branch_name``` branch.
* **git merge branch_2** merge ```branch_1``` (the branch you are currently on) with ```branch_2```. When there are conflicts between the two branches, git will show 'merge conflict' error and highlight inline to indicate the conflict, which must be fixed before merge can be done error-free.
* **git branch -d branch_name** deletes a branch.!!! Collaborative contribution
* **git remote add remote_name remote_url** adds a remote to a repository.
* **git remote rm remote_name** removes a remote repository.
* **git clone remote_name clone_name** clones a project from a remote location called ```remote_name``` to your local directory and name it ```clone_name```. The remote location is automatically named ```origin```, while your cloned version might be different (the 'local' version).
* **git remote -v** shows a list of remotes (that have been cloned/fetched to the local working directory).
* **git fetch** shows whether changes have been made at the remote location. When there are changes, it means the ```master``` branch of ```origin``` (denoted as ```origin/master``` is different from the ```master``` branch of your local directory - they need to be merged.
* An excellent summary from Codeacademy about the general workflow of collaborative contribution:

    * Fetch and merge changes from the remote
    * Create a branch to work on a new project feature
    * Develop the feature on your branch and commit your work
    * Fetch and merge from the remote again (in case new commits were made while you were working)
    * Push your branch up to the remote for review''

* **git push remote_name your_branch** push your branch to the remote location (which can be subsequently reviewed and merged by other collaborators into the master branch).