# My work-from-home log book #2

This is my 9th day working from home (yes, I am counting weekends too), and here's the lessons learnt so far.

## Get up as early/late as you need

I have been doing this for a long time so it's not specific to my current [situation](http://web.xiangchen.me/blog/#my-work-from-home-log-book-1). The rationale is: since you have the freedom of WFH, why not maximizing its benefits by choosing the *best* get-up time? So instead of adhering to a mechanical schedule, I simply allow myself to naturally 'find' my way up when I am ready with enough sleep.

## The pros and cons of focusing on one thing

I believe the number of tasks you can multi-task over a period of time (hours, days, etc.) is proportional to your inherent interllectual effectiveness. Since I don't think I have much interllectual effectiveness working from this tiny apartment all day long, I decided to focus on just one thing during the course of WFH. The pro of this approach is I am bound to making progress since I continuously invest my time and energy on that thing. The cons is, well, I get bored from time to time. To deal with that, I had to change my philosophy of working all day non-stop, as shown below.

## A physical mid-day break

In 2017 I pretty much stopped eating lunch (or just light snacks) so that I can keep working all day without the lunch's interruption (going to buy lunch, eating lunch, getting food coma, recovering from food coma, etc.). I was able to conquer harder tasks that took longer time, or to accomplish multiple types of tasks in one day. I quite enjoyed it.

But now, however, since it feels so stifling to stay in the apartment all day (working on one thing, unfortunately), I decided to add a physical mid-day break (still no lunch though). The best way is to go for a run then a refreshing shower. Or anything that requires some physical activity outdoor, e.g., walking to do errands. The key is physicality, which seems to hit a reset button and give me a *deja vu* feeling that the day is yet to start. 

## Opportunistically burning late night oil

Since some of the days might not be so productive, it never hurts to burn some late night oil. If I feel excited/energetic coming back from a dinner, or out of a shower, I won't hesitate to go back to work. Drive for an hour or two, it will sometimes make a huge difference to the day that seems already past.

## Weekends are for enjoyable miscellaneous tasks

It will be a drag continuing to work from home over the weekends (it's a different story though if you *only* work from home on weekends). So last weekends I decided to do a bunch of miscellaneous tasks that took very little brain power. It worked. I didn't feel exhausted at all and I finished what I had to do any way without taking up the time on weekdays where I want to focus on something more serious.