# My work-from-home log book #1

I am going to spend a significant amount of time working from home in the first two months of 2018. So I decided to log how well it goes.

Actually, I have been working from home most of the time since October 2017. However, I had a dedicated basement office with my favorite quite and semi-dark environment. Now I have to work 6 feet away from the dinning room and the kitchen. I had anticipated a new level of challenges.

Well, so today is the first day. Actually the first day I started working since the holiday break. Thus almost double the difficulty.

## What happened?
* First, I had spent the past few days back and forth setting up the physical environment, and it worked pretty well. I started with working on the dinning table, which me and my wife had planned and bought a specialized IKEA table for. But the problem is it doesn't give me enough space without taking over the dinning area. I want a dedicated workspace, not somewhere I had to move my stuff away from at every meal time. So I pivoted. I bought another super basic IKEA table and set it up conveniently in an empty area in the living room. It seems perfect, providing just enough space for my laptop, my wireless input devices, and the monitor. Having the physical environment right is a once-and-for-all thing towards productive WFH.

* Like always, returning to work from a long non-working period is suffering. Working from home only makes it worse. I had to force myself to sit down, stare at the clock, time for 2 hours, and focus on one thing (unproductively, as it turned out). I don't know any other way to do it than routinize myself mechanically.

## What's next?
* I will continue to keep myself on a tight leash for the next couple of days. I will make a unusually detailed schedule. I will focus on one thing while procrastinating others.

* I will observe if I am easily distracted, given the non-office environment. I will then see what can reduce the distraction or enhance my attention.