# On human-in-the-loop intelligence

What is human-in-the-loop?

1. Traditionally, the holy grail of AI has been finding out what humans are good at and replacing it with machine intelligence, so that a lot of the tasks that need humans can now be delegated to machines

2. However, what's more challenging or perhaps underexplored is how to best combine humans and AI in a way that the outcome is greater than either humans and AI alone. This can be manifested as two sub-problems:

	* "At its deepest, interface design means developing the fundamental primitives human beings think and create with." [[1]](https://distill.pub/2017/aia/) We need to rethink user interface design, not as a merely digital representation of human-centric tasks, but as a series of "fundamental primitives" that amplify how human beings think about and create new ideas.


A successful human-in-the-loop user interface should look like this: 
* **Allowing users to express their problems or ideas at a high-level, in a variety of different ways**: users can express their ideas at a very high-level (e.g., "I'd like a tree-shaped book case", "I want a red shoe wit white sole and black shoelaces", "I want to visit these national parks in 3 days"); 
* **An AI system defines and solves the underlying computational problems**: the system searches and/or generates the solution, taking care of the nitty-gritty details and solving many constraints that would otherwise cause users headache; 
* **The process is intervenable, overwritable and iteratable**: users can intervene, overwrite and iterate an on-going automation, where the system can handle (often uncertain/unanticipated) user input or address their concerns.

## Detailed plans

1. Human-in-the-loop design

	* Design 'agents' should understand users' description (verbal and non-verbal) and generate the designs accordingly while allow users to 'chip in', intervene or overwrite the artifacts.

2. Human-in-the-loop fabrication. 

	* In the future, robots is going to be a big part of our life, and a range of different physical tasks are going to be 'outsourced' to robots.
	* Likewise, while enjoying being taken care of by robots, we need to devise mechanisms for human users to 'chip in', intervene or overwrite the tasks.

## Reading list

1. [Carter & Nielsen, "Using Artificial Intelligence to Augment Human Intelligence", Distill, 2017.](https://distill.pub/2017/aia/)

2. Manuala's essay?

3. [Human-in-the-loop Artificial Intelligence](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.08191.pdf)

## Random thoughts

* domain knowledge -> interaction techniques -> HITL

* Self-driving cars should understand people's gestures and other body language.
