# Another perspective on mixed-initiative interaction

One day I received an email from Google Photos, reminding me that it had taken the liberty of creating some animations and 'instagram' effects from the photos I took in my phone.

I clicked open the Google Photo site. The animations and effects were pretty awesome. In particular, the animation was a series of stop-motion I took of my wife. I sent the animation to her and we laughed at it.

It dawned on me that this is another type of *mixed-initiative interaction* (or just *action* in this case). Traditionally, being mixed-initiative means the computer recognizes something from your data and proactively takes certain actions on behalf of you, which, however, is easily undoable if you don't desire so. In the Google Photos example, the computer looked through my pile of photos before I had a chance to do so, and created new content from those photos for me, which could be shared if I'd like or be ignored/deleted if otherwise.

The general benefit of this mixed-initiative action: the computer does something for me that saves my attention and labor, in a minimally intrusive way. Think of it another way. It's like a very close friend who considerately send you a little something they make for you.

The only thing I would love to see improved is some sort of interaction and iteration. Maybe I can click a button to create more such animations, or maybe I can adjust a few sliders to custom the effects, or maybe next time Google Photos simply asks me: shall I send this to your wife like you did last time?
