# My work-from-home log book #3
This is my 23rd day working from home, and I have developed further understanding about it.

## The fundamental problem of working from home is the inability to compartmentalize
Going to work allows you to compartmentalize work only at your workplace, and free from work when you are home (or somewhere else). In contrast, working-from-home makes you feel like you are trapped in an infinite loop. There are several problems: you feel bored being at the same place all the time; you are distracted by home-related chores; you don't ever feel relaxed or recharged, because now leisure activities seem so physically inseparable from work.

## How I compartmentalize WFH
Looking back at what I have been doing, it seems I have been trying hard to help myself compartmentalize.

1. **Physical compartmentalization**. I make sure I don't touch the couch or my bed during the day, as those objects tend to break my compartmentalization of work. On the other hand, I try not to watch TV shows or movies on my work desk. When I did that I didn't actually feel relaxed; worse, it seemed to leave me with a lingering urge to watch TV shows or movies when I got stuck at work.

2. **Temporal compartmentalization**. So far I seem to have broken my day into three chunks: the first 3 hours start some time between 10 and 11 AM, then I usually go out for some physical activity for about an hour; the second chunk then takes place for 2-3 hours; then it's dinner time; then I burn some late night oil before calling it a day at 10 PM.

3. **Cognitive compartmentalization**. Before I found it useful to insert physical activities in the middle of the day. Now I am also trying to work on cognitively different things in different chunks, such as thinking, designing and preparing talks in the morning, reading in the afternoon, and coding at night. I haven't found the best way to assign these tasks to different chunks. Most of the time I tend to improvise, and just do what I feel like doing. But the important thing is I never spend the entire day working on the same type of task (e.g., making presentation, reading papers), as I found my productivity exponentially declined when I did so.

## The best (or worst) case scenario is you evolve to live in your work
I believe there are people who find it no problem at all working from home. I am guessing they don't really consider work much different from the rest of their lives. They pretty much look forward to work every day and geniunely enjoy every second working. In that scenario, there is no need to compartmentalize. Working from home becomes just like binge-watching TV shows, or taking a vacation that never ends.