# On domain-specific knowledge and workflow

First of all, the use of *model* here is unfortunately confusing. In the context of fabrication, we talk about *3D models* where a *model* is a concrete instance of an object represented by certain data structures, e.g., a list of polygons. In contrast, by *modeling* domain-specific making I mean coming up with **a general representation of how a specific type of things can be designed and fabricated by non-expert users**.

## Detailed plans

1. Study non-expert users' strategy of using conventional CAD tools to to design given objects.

	- Expected outcome: aggregated high-level acitvities users commonly undertake to accomplish a certain piece of design (in other words: a high-level vocabuary of describing how non-experts design things)

2. Extracting, aggregating and abstracting workflow from instances of design tasks

	- Using the learnt vocabulary, we can observe experts' making process and 'map' it or 'convert' it to simpler workflow and steps doable by non-experts
	- Related: Chronicle

3. A program synthesis approach to reverse engineer designed things

	- Break a design down into parametric components so that users can reuse and repurpose the same design, or even create analogous new designs



## Case study: assistive technology
* Adaptations

	- Reprise maps a large body of examples to a simple workflow that replicate most of these examples

* Prosthetic hand

	- how to fit the user's residual limb?
	- how to pick and choose different functionalities?

* Utencil holder



## Articles to read
* [Cyborg beast: a low-cost 3d-printed prosthetic hand for children with upper-limb differences](https://bmcresnotes.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13104-015-0971-9)
* Tovi's [Chronicle](https://www.autodeskresearch.com/publications/chronicle) project
* Review the UW program synthesis paper

## Random thoughts
* A good model can well **inform** a user's making tasks.
* [main idea?] Automatically extracting models from observing experts designing things. The chronicle project allows a user to see how documents are created and edited by their authors, thus learning to accomplish similar tasks. However, it primarily focuses on transfering replicatable steps of existing processes, rather than allowing for improving or optimizing such processes.
* [slides] Try to distill from the mega table that design tools can be summarized to have these three problems: model, interaction and computation.
* How to introduce domain-specific knowledge?
* [don't use model] understanding, learning and manipulating design workflows?