# On how AI should augment human intelligence

It's been a while since I read something so concisely enlightening. This [article](https://jods.mitpress.mit.edu/pub/issue3-case) talks about 'how to become a centaur', where a centaur is the metaphor of the symbiosis between AI and human.

Another classic metaphor:
> "Steve Jobs once called the computer a bicycle for the mind. Note the metaphor of a bicycle, instead of a something like a car — a bicycle lets you go faster than the human body ever can, and yet, unlike the car, the bicycle is human-powered. (Also, the bicycle is healthier for you.) The strength of metal, with a human at its heart. A collaboration — a centaur. "

Creation vs. consumption
> "Doug Engelbart envisioned that the computer would be a tool for intellectual and artistic creativity; now, our devices are designed less around creation, and more around consumption. "

It all boils down to figure out what AIs are best at and what humans are best at.
> "AIs are best at choosing answers. Humans are best at choosing questions. "

Now this is my favorite piece about Doug Engelbart
> "That’s why Doug tied that brick to a pencil — to prove a point.  Of all the tools we’ve created to augment our intelligence, writing may be the most important.  But when he “de-augmented” the pencil, by tying a brick to it, it became much, much harder to even write a single word.  And when you make it hard to do the low-level parts of writing, it becomes near impossible to do the higher-level parts of writing: organizing your thoughts, exploring new ideas and expressions, cutting it all down to what’s essential.  That was Doug’s message: a tool doesn’t “just” make something easier — it allows for new, previously-impossible ways of thinking, of living, of being."

Concluding words of wisdom:
> "So, when you think of augmenting human intelligence with AI, think less of assimilating into The Borg, and more of a spirited conversation between Kirk & Spock — a mix of intuition and logic that surpasses either one alone. ""