# A Week of Mostly Reading & Walking and Towards Big Think and Deep Work

I was supposed to be on a plane to Japan but I didn't get my visa in time (it arrived on the day after the flight I had to miss). I also got COVID-19, as if the universe needed a double-insurance to make sure I couldn't go to Japan as planned.

So what could I do with this week's unexpected free time (I had canceled most meetings in order to adjust for timezone shift)?

I felt tired from dealing with all the travel-related things. I did feel sick from COVID-19, which to me was similar to a normal cold. I had been wanting to spend a few days like Bill Gates to do ['big think'](https://thriveglobal.com/stories/bill-gates-think-week/) (i.e., reading lots of books and think big-picture-ly). Perfect timing! A third ingredient I added was trying to implement some of Cal Newport's deep work ideas (at least trying to get rid of as many shallow components as possible).

## What happens every day?
Here's a what a typical day of my life in this week was like:
* 0800-0900: Wake up and immediately head to a local coffee shop;
* I park my car half a mile away from the coffee shop so I can walk Elfo back and forth;
* 1.5-2 hours of book reading with coffee + pastry and without digital devices or the Internet;
* Return home at about 1100, deal with emails, and do some shallow work;
* After lunch, go to the park, sit on my camping chair under a tree and read books for 1.5-2 hours;
* Return home, sometimes more emails, and some less shallow work (e.g., making slides and watching Coursera videos);
* Occasionally, go out for a walk before dinner---I went to Santa Monica Beach once and Culver City Stairs once. Alternatively, a neighborhood walk after dinner;
* Watch a movie and some TV;
* Before 2230, I am in bed and asleep.

## How did the Reading & Big Think go?
I juggled reading these books: "Deep Work", "Men's Searching for Meaning", "the Code Breaker", "Tools of Titans", "By Design", and "Mind in Motion". I felt the first three books made a big splash on me:

* "Deep Work" really made me rethink the ways I have been working. It's a very timely read because recently I felt I was developing some "email anxiety". During my day's work, I'd keep Gmail open and visible on a screen and forcefully glance at it every few seconds even when I was in a meeting. Why? I felt I was waiting for some "important news" to arrive so that my day could become more "interesting". This sounds so ridiculous now that I have written it "out loud" here.
* "Men's Searching for Meaning" begs the question: what is the purpose that will support you to stay living and alive even in environments like the Auschwitz camp?
* "The Code Breaker" really demonstrates some of the best versions of academic excellence and makes me rethink how I define my research direction and run my research group.

## How did the Deep Work part go?
To be accurate, since I was taking a break from regular work, there wasn't much actual work or depth in this week. My focus was mainly on getting rid of the shallow parts. One significant change was reducing phone use (checking emails and social media). Some before-and-now comparisons:

* Before: check on my phone on and off while lying in bed in the morning; Now: check on my phone at most once before getting up;
* Before: check on my phone while waiting in line; Now: acknowledge that I am bored and just stick with it;
* Before: interleave work with occasionally checking of WeChat and Twitter on the phone; Now: completely stop doing that;
* Before: check on my phone while watching movies/TV shows; Now: completely stop doing that;
* Before: must read tweets or Douban before falling asleep; Now: simply go to bed and shut my eyes;

Although such phone use reduction hasn't reached permanency, it at least shows that it is possible to cut back phone usage no matter how heavily you used to rely on it. One key step is to acknowledge and accept the "emptiness" once you stop checking on your phone. At first, you might feel uncomfortable and even anxious but soon you will learn to live with the fact that life is supposed to be this quiet at the absence of over-connectedness.

## What about the many walks?
There are three motivations for me to walk. First, I was inspired by how many deep work "celebrities" like Carl Jung and Cal Newport himself practiced walking as a means of thinking. Second, to better recover from COVID-19, I wanted to use walking as a form of mild exercise in lieu of more intense bouldering and running. Finally, I just cannot stay indoor all the time while avoiding the soothing mild summer in West LA. So, in total, I walked 2-3 times every day for a total of 2-3 miles. I did practice the thinking exercise while walking but most of the time I felt I was more in the auto-pilot mode. I still need to learn how to find what problems to think about and how to think about them while walking.

## Summary
Overall, it was a much-needed break from almost 6-month of routine academic work, from the frustrating trip-planning errands, from COVID-19, and from my despicable shallow work habits. On top of that, I got to spend more time home with Elfo and Shuang. I found that my two favorite local coffee shops are Alana's and Coffee Connection.