# Your Moss Garden

July 21, 2024. Kuala Lumpur

I recently listened to Jensen Huang's commencement speech at Caltech. 
Most of his speech was stories of his Nvidia journey, spoken in a light and humorous tone.
I've already known most of the Nvidia stories so wasn't too much drawn to his speech.
Then, towards the end, Huang started talking about one of his trips to Kyoto.
In a large moss garden, he found a lone gardener using a bamboo tweezer to remove dead moss, one at a time.
To many of us, this seems an impossible task and Jensen commented something along the same line to the gardener.
The gardener's response was “I have cared for my garden for 25 years. I have plenty of time.” 

Then Jensen talked about the lessons he learned, which I have to quote verbatim as follows because it was so well-said.

> Well, that was one of the most profound learnings in my life. And it really taught me something. This gardener has dedicated himself to his craft and doing his life’s work. And when you do that, you have plenty of time.
> ... I begin each morning by doing my highest priority work first. I have a very clear priority list and I start from the highest priority work first. Before I even get to work, my day is already a success. I’ve already completed my most important work and can dedicate my day to helping others.

There are two parts in the lessons he learned.

First, if you have found your own moss garden---something you are willing and happy to dedicate your life's work to, you will have plenty of time.
To me, having plenty of time means the liberty to take as much time as the work needs to meet a high standard, rather than being haunted by the fear of running out of time or being too busy to do what's truly important. Much of our work is driven by deadlines. Even companies set goals by quarter or year. Very few can work like the lone gardener because we haven't found our moss garden.

The second part seems quite straightforward: once you find your moss garden, simply dedicate yourself, every day, to do the "highest priority work first". 
That's it. I don't think this is any magic recipe for success. But the ability to constantly focus on high-priority work is only attainable (and only makes sense) once you find your own moss garden.`

As I kept thinking of this part of Huang's speech, I gradually set up my mind to do research like the lone gardener. The projects I am working on seem like parts of my moss garden. Maybe I should start treating them like it.